'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 2018, Raymond S Brand
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 
.\"  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\" 
.\"  * Redistributions in source or binary form must carry prominent
.\"    notices of any modifications.
.\" 
.\"  * Neither the name of the Raymond S Brand nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
.\" CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH \%EAVL_Find 3 2017-06-20 "EAVL" "RSBX Libraries"

.SH NAME
\%EAVLp_Find, \%EAVLs_Find, \%EAVLc_Find \- find node in a tree

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include """EAVL_pTree.h"""
.sp
.BI "int EAVLp_Find(EAVLp_context_t* " context ", EAVL_rel_t " rel ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVLp_cbCompare_t* " compare ", void* " ref_value ","
.BI " EAVLp_node_t* " ref_node ", EAVLp_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
 ...
.sp
.B #include """EAVL_sTree.h"""
.sp
.BI "int EAVLs_Find(EAVLs_context_t* " context ", EAVL_rel_t " rel ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVLs_cbCompare_t* " compare ", void* " ref_value ","
.BI " EAVLs_node_t* " ref_node ", EAVLs_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
 ...
.sp
.B #include """EAVL_cTree.h"""
.sp
.BI "int EAVLc_Find(EAVLc_context_t* " context ", EAVL_rel_t " rel ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVLc_cbCompare_t* " compare ", void* " ref_value ","
.BI " EAVLc_node_t* " ref_node ", EAVLc_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR \%EAVLp_Find "(), " \%EAVLs_Find "(), and " \%EAVLc_Find ()
functions search the associated tree for a node that has the specified
relationship with the specified reference(s) and stores the address of that
node in
.IR \%*resultp .

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I \%context
Address of an associated and set context structure.
.TP
.I \%rel
Specifies how the found node relates to
.IR \%ref_value " and " \%ref_node .
Valid values are:
.TS
LB	L.
EAVL_FIND_LT	Right-most node left of the reference
EAVL_FIND_LE	T{
.na
Right-most node left of or equivalent to the reference
.ad
T}
EAVL_FIND_EQ	Equivalent to the reference
EAVL_FIND_GE	T{
.na
Left-most node right of or equivalent the reference
.ad
T}
EAVL_FIND_GT	Left-most node right of the reference
.TE
.TP
.I \%compare
NULL or a pointer to an alternative comparison callback to use instead of the
compare callback set when the associated tree was initialized.
.sp
An alternative
compare callback MUST be compatible with the callback set when the associated
tree was initialized.  That is, if the alternative compare callback returns
.BR \%EAVL_CMP_LEFT " or " \%EAVL_CMP_RIGHT
for a comparison then the compare callback set when the associated tree was
initialized MUST return the same value.
.TP
.I \%ref_value
Pointer to a value to compare tree nodes with while searching the tree.
.TP
.I \%ref_node
Pointer to a node to compare tree nodes with while searching the tree.
.TP
.I \%resultp
Pointer to an \%EAVL node pointer of the appropriate type.

.SH RETURN VALUE
.TP
.B \%EAVL_OK
Success.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_CALLBACK
A retryable callback error occurred. The same \%EAVL operation may be attempted
again after the reason for the callback error return is ameliorated.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_ERROR_CALLBACK
A non retryable callback error occurred.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_ERROR_CONTEXT
Returned if the context is not set or if
.B \%EAVL_CHECK_CONTEXT
checking is available and enabled and
.I \%context
is in an invalid state.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_ERROR_PARAMETER
Returned if
.IR \%context " or " \%resultp
are NULL or the
.IR \%dir " or " \%order
parameters are not valid.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_ERROR_TREE
Returned if
.B \%EAVL_CHECK_TREE
checking is available and enabled and the associated tree does not pass the
tree checks.

.SH CONTEXT STATE
On function return, context state will match the following table:
.TS
L	C	C
C	C	C
L	|C	C|.
	Operation	Other
Result	Context	Contexts
	_	_
EAVL_OK	Set	Unchanged
EAVL_NOTFOUND	Not set	Unchanged
EAVL_CALLBACK	Unchanged	Unchanged
	_	_
EAVL_ERROR_CALLBACK	Not set	Unchanged
EAVL_ERROR_CONTEXT	Unchanged	Unchanged
EAVL_ERROR_PARAMETER	Unchanged	Unchanged
EAVL_ERROR_TREE	Unchanged	Unchanged
	_	_
EAVL_ERROR*	Not set	Unchanged
	_	_
.TE

.SH RESOURCE USAGE
.TS
C	C	C	C
|C	C	C	C|.
Work	Heap	Stack	Pathe*
_	_	_	_
\(*O(log(n))	\(*O(0)	\(*O(1)	\(*O(log(n))
_	_	_	_
.TE
Where
.I n
is the number of nodes in the tree.
.sp
Pathe usage is due to the \%EAVL?_cbPathe() callbacks. For the \%EAVL
pTree tree type, Pathe usage is Ο(0).

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.na
.BR \%EAVL_FirstNext (3),
.BR \%EAVL (7),
.BR \%EAVL_cbCompare (7),
.BR \%EAVL_cbPathe (7),
.BR \%EAVL_checks (7)
.ad
.hy 1
