'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 2018, Raymond S Brand
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 
.\"  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\" 
.\"  * Redistributions in source or binary form must carry prominent
.\"    notices of any modifications.
.\" 
.\"  * Neither the name of the Raymond S Brand nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
.\" CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH \%EAVL_Insert 3 2017-06-20 "EAVL" "RSBX Libraries"

.SH NAME
\%EAVLp_Insert, \%EAVLs_Insert, \%EAVLc_Insert \- add a node to a tree

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include """EAVL_pTree.h"""
.sp
.BI "int EAVLp_Insert(EAVLp_context_t* " context ", EAVLp_node_t* " new_node ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVLp_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
.sp 2
.B #include """EAVL_sTree.h"""
.sp
.BI "int EAVLs_Insert(EAVLs_context_t* " context ", EAVLs_node_t* " new_node ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVLs_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
.sp 2
.B #include """EAVL_cTree.h"""
.sp
.BI "int EAVLc_Insert(EAVLc_context_t* " context ", EAVLc_node_t* " new_node ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVLc_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR \%EAVLp_Insert "(), " \%EAVLs_Insert "(), and " \%EAVLc_Insert ()
functions insert a new node into the \%EAVL tree associated with
.IR \%context
and stores a pointer to the new node in
.IR \%*resultp .
If a there is already a node in the tree that compares equivalent to the new
node then the new node is not inserted and a pointer to the equivalent node is
stored in
.IR \%*resultp .

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I \%context
Address of an associated and set context structure.
.TP
.I \%new_node
Pointer to a node to insert into the tree associated with
.IR \%context .
.TP
.I \%resultp
Pointer to an \%EAVL node pointer of the appropriate type.

.SH RETURN VALUE
.TP
.B \%EAVL_OK
Success.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_CALLBACK
A retryable callback error occurred. The same \%EAVL operation may be attempted
again after the reason for the callback error return is ameliorated.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_ERROR_ALIGNMENT
Returned if
.B \%EAVL_CHECK_PARAMETER
checking is available and enabled and the new_node does not meet the alignment
requirements.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_ERROR_CALLBACK
A non retryable callback error occurred.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_ERROR_CONTEXT
Returned if the context is not set or if
.B \%EAVL_CHECK_CONTEXT
checking is available and enabled and
.I \%context
is in an invalid state.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_ERROR_PARAMETER
Returned if
.IR \%context ", " \%new_node ", or " \%resultp
are NULL.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_ERROR_TREE
Returned if
.B \%EAVL_CHECK_TREE
checking is available and enabled and the associated tree does not pass the
tree checks.

.SH CONTEXT STATE
On function return, context state will match the following table:
.TS
L	C	C
C	C	C
L	|C	C|.
	Operation	Other
Result	Context	Contexts
	_	_
EAVL_OK	Set	Not set
EAVL_EXISTS	Set	Unchanged
EAVL_CALLBACK	Not set	Unchanged
	_	_
EAVL_ERROR_CALLBACK	Not set	Unchanged
EAVL_ERROR_CONTEXT	Unchanged	Unchanged
EAVL_ERROR_PARAMETER	Unchanged	Unchanged
EAVL_ERROR_TREE	Unchanged	Unchanged
	_	_
EAVL_ERROR*	Not set	Not set
	_	_
.TE

.SH RESOURCE USAGE
.TS
C	C	C	C
|C	C	C	C|.
Work	Heap	Stack	Pathe*
_	_	_	_
\(*O(log(n))	\(*O(0)	\(*O(1)	\(*O(log(n))
_	_	_	_
.TE
Where
.I n
is the number of nodes in the tree.
.sp
Pathe usage is due to the \%EAVL?_cbPathe() callbacks. For the \%EAVL
pTree tree type, Pathe usage is Ο(0).

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.na
.BR \%EAVL_Remove (3),
.BR \%EAVL (7),
.BR \%EAVL_cbCompare (7),
.BR \%EAVL_cbPathe (7),
.BR \%EAVL_checks (7)
.ad
.hy 1
