'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 2018, Raymond S Brand
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 
.\"  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\" 
.\"  * Redistributions in source or binary form must carry prominent
.\"    notices of any modifications.
.\" 
.\"  * Neither the name of the Raymond S Brand nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
.\" CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH \%EAVL_FirstNext 3 2017-06-20 "EAVL" "RSBX Libraries"

.SH NAME
\%EAVLp_First, \%EAVLs_First, \%EAVLc_First \- first traversal node
.br
\%EAVLp_Last, \%EAVLs_Last, \%EAVLc_Last \- last traversal node
.br
\%EAVLp_Next, \%EAVLs_Next, \%EAVLc_Next \- next traversal node
.br
\%EAVLp_Prev, \%EAVLs_Prev, \%EAVLc_Prev \- previous traversal node


.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include """EAVL_pTree.h"""
.sp
.BI "int EAVLp_First(EAVLp_context_t* " context ", EAVL_dir_t " dir ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVL_order_t " order ", EAVLp_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
.BI "int EAVLp_Last(EAVLp_context_t* " context ", EAVL_dir_t " dir ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVL_order_t " order ", EAVLp_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
.BI "int EAVLp_Next(EAVLp_context_t* " context ", EAVL_dir_t " dir ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVL_order_t " order ", EAVLp_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
.BI "int EAVLp_Prev(EAVLp_context_t* " context ", EAVL_dir_t " dir ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVL_order_t " order ", EAVLp_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
 ...
.sp
.B #include """EAVL_sTree.h"""
.sp
.BI "int EAVLs_First(EAVLs_context_t* " context ", EAVL_dir_t " dir ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVL_order_t " order ", EAVLs_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
.BI "int EAVLs_Last(EAVLs_context_t* " context ", EAVL_dir_t " dir ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVL_order_t " order ", EAVLs_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
.BI "int EAVLs_Next(EAVLs_context_t* " context ", EAVL_dir_t " dir ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVL_order_t " order ", EAVLs_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
.BI "int EAVLs_Prev(EAVLs_context_t* " context ", EAVL_dir_t " dir ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVL_order_t " order ", EAVLs_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
 ...
.sp
.B #include """EAVL_cTree.h"""
.sp
.BI "int EAVLc_First(EAVLc_context_t* " context ", EAVL_dir_t " dir ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVL_order_t " order ", EAVLc_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
.BI "int EAVLc_Last(EAVLc_context_t* " context ", EAVL_dir_t " dir ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVL_order_t " order ", EAVLc_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
.BI "int EAVLc_Next(EAVLc_context_t* " context ", EAVL_dir_t " dir ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVL_order_t " order ", EAVLc_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
.BI "int EAVLc_Prev(EAVLc_context_t* " context ", EAVL_dir_t " dir ","
.in +5n
.BI " EAVL_order_t " order ", EAVLc_node_t** " resultp ");"
.in
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR \%EAVLp_First "(), " \%EAVLs_First "(), and " \%EAVLc_First ()
functions store the address of the first node of a walk of all of the nodes
in a tree, moving in direction
.IR \%dir ,
walking the tree in an
.IR \%order
fashion in
.IR \%*resultp .
.sp
The
.BR \%EAVLp_Last "(), " \%EAVLs_Last "(), and " \%EAVLc_Last ()
functions store the address of the last node of a walk of all of the nodes
in a tree, moving in direction
.IR \%dir ,
walking the tree in an
.IR \%order
fashion in
.IR \%*resultp .
.sp
The
.BR \%EAVLp_Next "(), " \%EAVLs_Next "(), and " \%EAVLc_Next ()
functions store the address of the next node, relative to the node set in
the context, of a walk of the nodes in a tree, moving in direction
.IR \%dir ,
walking the tree in an
.IR \%order
fashion in
.IR \%*resultp .
.sp
The
.BR \%EAVLp_Prev "(), " \%EAVLs_Prev "(), and " \%EAVLc_Prev ()
functions store the address of the previous node, relative to the node set in
the context, of a walk of the nodes in a tree, moving in direction
.IR dir ,
walking the tree in an
.IR order
fashion in
.IR *resultp .

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I \%context
Address of an associated context structure.
.TP
.I \%dir
Traversal direction. Valid values are
.BR \%EAVL_DIR_LEFT " and " \%EAVL_DIR_RIGHT.
.TP
.I \%order
Traversal order. Valid values are
.BR \%EAVL_ORDER_PRE ", " \%EAVL_ORDER_IN ", and " \%EAVL_ORDER_POST .
.TP
.I \%resultp
Pointer to an \%EAVL node pointer of the appropriate type.

.SH RETURN VALUE
.TP
.B \%EAVL_OK
Success.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_CALLBACK
A retryable callback error occurred. The same \%EAVL operation may be attempted
again after the reason for the callback error return is ameliorated.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_ERROR_CONTEXT
Returned if the context is not set or if
.B \%EAVL_CHECK_CONTEXT
checking is available and enabled and
.I \%context
is in an invalid state.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_ERROR_PARAMETER
Returned if
.IR \%context " or " \%resultp
are NULL or the
.IR \%dir " or " \%order
parameters are not valid.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_ERROR_TREE
Returned if
.B \%EAVL_CHECK_TREE
checking is available and enabled and the associated tree does not pass the
tree checks.

.SH CONTEXT STATE
The context MUST be set for the \%EAVL?_Next() and \%EAVL?_Prev() functions
when called.
On function return, context state will match the following table:
.TS
L	C	C
C	C	C
L	|C	C|.
	Operation	Other
Result	Context	Contexts
	_	_
EAVL_OK	Set	Unchanged
EAVL_NOTFOUND	Not set	Unchanged
EAVL_CALLBACK	Unchanged	Unchanged
	_	_
EAVL_ERROR_CONTEXT	Unchanged	Unchanged
EAVL_ERROR_PARAMETER	Unchanged	Unchanged
EAVL_ERROR_TREE	Unchanged	Unchanged
	_	_
EAVL_ERROR*	Not set	Unchanged
	_	_
.TE

.SH RESOURCE USAGE
.TS
C	C	C	C
|C	C	C	C|.
Work	Heap	Stack	Pathe*
_	_	_	_
\(*O(log(n))	\(*O(0)	\(*O(1)	\(*O(log(n))
_	_	_	_
.TE
Where
.I n
is the number of nodes in the tree.
.sp
Pathe usage is due to the \%EAVL?_cbPathe() callbacks. For the \%EAVL
pTree tree type, Pathe usage is Ο(0).

.SH NOTES
Iterating over the entire only requires \*(O(n) work since each edge is (tree)
graph is traversed only twice; once down and once up.

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.na
.BR \%EAVL_Find (3),
.BR \%EAVL (7),
.BR \%EAVL_cbPathe (7),
.BR \%EAVL_checks (7)
.ad
.hy 1
