'\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2018, Raymond S Brand
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 
.\"  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"    distribution.
.\" 
.\"  * Redistributions in source or binary form must carry prominent
.\"    notices of any modifications.
.\" 
.\"  * Neither the name of the Raymond S Brand nor the names of its
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\"    from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
.\" CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH \%EAVL_cbVerify 7 2017-06-20 "EAVL" "RSBX Libraries"

.SH NAME
\%EAVLp_cbVerify, \%EAVLs_cbVerify, \%EAVLc_cbVerify \- verify callback

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include """EAVL_pTree.h"""
.sp
.BI "int (*EAVLp_cbVerify)(EAVLp_node_t* " node ", EAVLp_node_t* " childL ","
.in +5n
.BI "EAVLp_node_t " childR ", void* " cbdata ");"
.in
 ...
.sp
.B #include """EAVL_sTree.h"""
.sp
.BI "int (*EAVLs_cbVerify)(EAVLs_node_t* " node ", EAVLs_node_t* " childL "," 
.in +5n 
.BI "EAVLs_node_t " childR ", void* " cbdata ");"
.in
 ...
.sp
.B #include """EAVL_cTree.h"""
.sp
.BI "int (*EAVLc_cbVerify)(EAVLc_node_t* " node ", EAVLc_node_t* " childL "," 
.in +5n 
.BI "EAVLc_node_t " childR ", void* " cbdata ");"
.in
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR \%EAVLp_cbVerify "(), " \%EAVLs_cbVerify "(), and " \%EAVLc_cbVerify ()
callback functions are called to check the validity of calling code managed
data of the node if the check
.BR \%EAVL_CHECK_TREE
is available and enabled.
.sp
This callback function type is the counterpart of the
.BR \%EAVL_cbFixup (7)
callback function type.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I \%node
Pointer to the node to check the validity of calling code managed data.
.TP
.I \%childL
Pointer to the root of the left subtree of
.IR \%node .
.TP
.I \%childR
Pointer to the root of the left subtree of
.IR \%node .
.TP
.I \%cbdata
Value of the
.I \%cbdata
parameter to one of the
.BR \%EAVL_Context_Init (3)
functions.

.SH RETURN VALUE
.TP
.B \%EAVL_CB_OK
Success.
.TP
.B \%EAVL_CB_FINISHED
Success and further verify callback invocations are unnecessary as part of the
current \%EAVL function call.

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.na
.BR \%EAVL_Context_Management (3),
.BR \%container_of (7),
.BR \%EAVL (7),
.BR \%EAVL_cbCompare (7),
.BR \%EAVL_cbDup (7),
.BR \%EAVL_cbFixup (7),
.BR \%EAVL_cbPathe (7),
.BR \%EAVL_cbRelease (7),
.BR \%EAVL_checks (7)
.ad
.hy 1
